typical way that people try to pronounce
it show mo yo ho yo you guys making any
videos on Schmo yo my name is Evan
Gregory I'm Andrew Gregory we are two of
the Gregory Brothers the other two being
our brother Michael and my wife Sarah we
run the YouTube channel
Shmuel Yoho accent on the yo
I'm gonna
are primarily known for songify this and
songify the news YouTube series where we
take stuff that was never meant to be a
song and create a song out of it
it was never intentionally meant to be a
song it might have been like destined to
be a song in like a more cosmic sense
right that's what we see our job as is
kind of uncovering the songs that were
wrongfully hidden within ordinary videos
a lot of this started in like 2007-2008
for us we were on tour as a band and we
were running the Gregory Brothers
YouTube channel as just a way to like
put up videos of our live performances
that I think now are thankfully private
'add and Michael was running the YouTube
channel schmoyoho as a way to put up
like music videos he was making a
college slash to leave comments on all
AG videos that were illegally uploaded
so during the 2008 election we'd come
off the road and we were all living in
New York Michael had moved up here after
he finished school and he made a video
that got tens of thousands of views so
many to his channel which just amazed
all of us so we just said you know what
you should do a video for the next
debate
it was Palin vs. Biden and we'll just
stay up all night and help you with it
and that was really the beginning of our
collaboration normally I'd say it was
the spring of 2009 that we had a hit on
a level that kind of opened our eyes
like a week if we put some more effort
into this like maybe we could really
make this go and this we could just be
doing YouTube and music videos so the
one that really broke big was called
auto-tune the news number two and that
was maybe April 2009 feeling any romance
between us right now you got to do it
like this is a pretty remarkable week on
the gay-marriage front first of all to
have a state like Iowa trying to say
about our
alone all drugs including heroin cocaine
meth within a couple weeks we started
getting emails from people from people
like with commercial requests and stuff
for people for other YouTube channels
that were like hiring Michael to come
right music for their YouTube channel
and it was sort of like okay like maybe
this would be a way into freelancing
like there that was the mentality in
2009 that's like oh if we use this as
our real basically we'll get Kirk that
pays and then within a year just the
ecosystem of YouTube changed where it
was sort of like oh now we'll get paid
for the ads instead of just being yeah
it was within that year approximately
that YouTube had this idea like oh what
if we offered people some of the ad
money on their videos maybe people would
make more videos now it seemed so
obvious but at the time it was not so
I'd say we kind of gradually left our
jobs over the ensuing months but by 2010
we were all just doing this Wow welcome
to our creative space is that how you
start this you've come in to as you can
tell the ping pong zone this is where we
challenge everyone who enters the studio
to a ping-pong match and if you win you
get to leave alive
so you're up in five minutes this is our
costume department we have a lot of
costumes in here that we bought like for
instance this penguin this set up
England pajamas I'm a little embarrassed
at how much money I spent on them too
for like 10 seconds in the video where
we were like giving zoolander arms and
he's wearing with penguin onesie so I
was like well he needs penguin sleeves
but a lot of this is like there's lots
of reasons to wear em you just start
making videos where you wear silly
costumes you'd be surprised at how many
of your friends and family like and want
to clean out their own closets by just
sending you the stuff they like want to
get rid of but don't really want to give
it up we just got a reputation in our
circle of family and friends as the
people who use weird clothes so now
people give us all their weird clothes a
lot of stuff in the mail just being like
I was gonna throw these ties away but
here they
for you yeah this is good songwriting
space for just collaborating on some
songs the wall is decorated from fan art
that we got in the mail then we moved
into this space which is basically an
empty warehouse there was just this
random shelf here so we just decided
well we'll just put our recording
equipment up there and it's not an
elaborate setup in here but it's good
for for what we do sequencing a lot of
original tracks and recording here and
we do all of our composing in here and
some mixing although sometimes will like
ship mixing out to freelancers and stuff
we try to do a lot of collaboration
where we can kind of be the creative
directors of everything but get as many
tasks off our plate as we can
we can use this for ping-pong death
matches also music rehearsals but we can
also the ping-pong table folds up you
can wipe the whole room pull down the
green set paper and then we have this
really long potential focal length for
all different types of green screens and
shots that we need to do yeah I will
give anyone who's ever think about
putting in a green screen like this a
small piece of advice which is do not
pick up your 15-foot seamless at the
store and try to get it home by yourself
just pay the hundred dollars for
delivery just get it delivered it's
worth the Bed Intruder phenomen was
really big for us but really at the
beginning of it we were just a part of
an even bigger wave he's clamming up
windows he's snatchin your people up
tryna rape em so y'all need to hide your
wife hide your kids hide your wife hide
your kids hide your wife
cuz they're rapin errbody idea at that
time in the summer 2010 like we had a
bunch of fans around our series
auto-tune the news but we still felt
like we were a drop in the bucket of
YouTube's remix culture when Antoine
Dodson's interview came out which well
it just it just took over YouTube and on
a scale that we'd never seen even with
other videos going viral and so we felt
like we're gonna make a song out of this
and see if we can sort of like amplify
his message into this like anthem that
you could sing along to and like be on
his side and lo and behold instead of
just being a drop in the bucket our song
became the main thing that summarized
the whole phenomenon and the Bed
Intruder song became bigger than the
original interview which had already
been huge so I'd say the way it was
really different than many other videos
we've released is that you saw it make
it out of just youtube into wider
culture everyone had heard it not just
the people that were on YouTube all the
time the song itself crossed over to the
Billboard Hot 100 so it had some kind of
tendrils out into mainstream culture
that much of YouTube doesn't doesn't do
really the first step of making a song a
fication is finding the right now an
intentional singer and occasionally you
know about that unintentional singer in
advance you know this ball we're doing
the Presidential Debates we can mark all
four of those presidential debates on
the calendar and know that Donald Trump
and Hillary Clinton are gonna say
amazing things in front of you know a
seated audience like with someone like
the bed intruder it's like we didn't
know that was gonna happen we're just
kind of always watching our Twitter
feeds and what's happening on Facebook
and what's trending on YouTube to sort
of say like well is there a kind of
viral moment that really works our
videos are still at their heart music
videos so our process reflects that as
as fun as the video the picture side of
it can be it's really driven by this
so that comes first for us specifically
for the debates is just we kind of
committed to our audience like this is a
thing we're gonna do so for each debate
we're gonna try to create a song that
summarizes the best moments and energy
from that night and release it the next
day we're gonna make it easy on
ourselves by not trying to do everything
in one night we can do a lot of stuff in
there in the run-up to the event we can
create some music we can anticipate what
the feel of the thing is gonna be and
try to make it a great track we can also
predict a lot of the time what is gonna
be said at the debate is you can kind of
guess what questions are going to be
asked and you already know what the
candidates are gonna say in response to
each question at least that's been the
case in previous years I think this year
there's maybe some question as to how
Donald Trump is gonna answer any given
question so we're all gonna watch the
debate together we'll be taking notes
for like these are the best clips and
then as soon as the debates over we like
split up and a couple of us will focus
on the like song of vacation side of the
audio and we'll be chopping up clips
we'll be comparing notes what were the
best moments like what were the sickest
burns you know or whatever we'll grab
those and start composing a song on the
other side a couple of us will go to
like the Edit Bay's start pulling
footage and doing the same things where
are those sick burns that we agree we're
gonna use let's start pulling video
let's start creating this fantasy world
where the audience members are dancing
and reacting and the presidential
candidates are and so we try to work
those two streams at once so then as the
song comes to completion you're not
starting from scratch in the video
you've or you've already been composing
those same assets and the two streams
could come together at the end and then
you sprinkle some pixie dust on it at 7
a.m. and upload it so it's about 1 hour
until the debate
Michael is frantically working on the
track Aaron a musician we work with is
in there working on the mix immunities
over here working on someplace and
getting ready to just like pull Clips
like crazy at the debate is happening
right now this song is in an embryonic
state but I could play a little bit of
it
my song is worth a thousand words or at
least about 70 words and that's all we
have so far it's five seconds long so
we're almost done pretty much
yes they're 5 to 8 for Sean Hannity Sean
Hannity Sean Hannity
Sean Hannity Sean Hannity Sean Hannity
can we do let's do a couple where were
it singing like singing the bro voice
yeah and then a couple words only
shouting so we can divide them okay copy
Sean Hannity Sean Hannity Sean Hannity
Sean Hannity Sean Hannity
I thought everybody reduces to call
nobody
oh okay
we should raise a minimum wage yeah I
highly recommend having coworkers that
you've known for thirty years it's very
convenient in many ways working with
your brothers I'm just gonna answer from
my own heart and then you be honest you
just pretend you don't even hear me and
you answer however you want okay I can
take it working with your brothers
offers like huge advantages of you get
each other's sense of humor implicitly
and you you're not explaining things to
each other all the time you're on the
same page creatively for so many reasons
having this like wealth of inside jokes
stories references aesthetics so that's
the huge advantage in like a you know
creative endeavor and also you can
borrow each other's car and take the
same road trips if you need to visit
aunt Barbara or whatever so that's like
logistically much more efficient now
there's big cons on the other side of
the coin in that that shared history
also means that you get on each other's
nerves much quicker or much less likely
to forgive foibles yeah or maybe you
spend two hours of your workday talking
about your upcoming road trip to visit
aunt Barbara and you're like well that's
just that two hours is down the drain
for working on videos you know as we're
just talking about like what time we're
gonna leave on Friday I should have been
editing but instead I was planning which
chick-fil-a I'm gonna stop out on i-95
yeah probably Inhofe de Grasse in
Maryland well it's too far off the
interstate I'm not stopping there
what helps me most when I think about
the creative process is just that there
are always a lot of obstacles in your
path and you can't deal with all of them
but you can do everything to try to get
rid of the obstacles that you're putting
in your own thing about maybe some folky
wisdom from john near guard or something
like after you but heavens take for long
time beans beans taste fine hey PG
famine is Sara I hope you enjoyed this
episode of creative spaces TV I'm
actually on my way to the airport help
I'm not playing going to Portland I hope
you enjoyed this episode the gregory
brothers are amazing they're so talented
and they are so sweet and funny if you
want to watch the actual schmoyoho
presidential debate video that was made
and that you saw the process of and then
also some more behind the scenes in the
form of a vlog that I've done both of
those videos are gonna be in the
description below if you're new here hi
I'm Sarah I usually don't look this
sketch it's it's been a long day but I
make these creative spaces TV episodes
and I also do vlogs and a lot of other
stuff so make sure to hit that subscribe
button down below if you have not yet
and hit that like button for schmoyoho
cuz they're they're just fabulous also
this was the last episode of this season
a creative space TV make sure you've
watched all the episodes go back look if
you missed one because it was such a fun
season to make and I look forward to
kind of stepping it up in certain ways
for next season I'll keep you in tune
with that through my vlogs
yeah just thank you so much for sticking
with me through this season it was a lot
of fun to make I will see you guys in
the next video stay peachy okay bye